# Raster-Based-Graphics-Pipeline

### Overview 
The pipeline can
be thought of as a series of six stages. You will implement roughly 4 stages of the pipeline.
1. Stage 1: modeling transformation
2. Stage 2: view transformation
3. Stage 3: projection transformation
4. Stage 4: clipping & scan conversion using Z-buffer algorithm
Your program will output five files: stage1.txt, stage2.txt, stage3.txt and zbuffer.txt, out.bmp. The first three files will contain the output of the first three stages,
respectively. The fourth file will contain Z-buffer values (only those which are less than the max value).
And the fifth file will be a bmp image generated by the pipeline.
Three will be two input files: scene.txt and config.txt
The first file will contain the scene description and second file will contain the necessary information for
the Z-buffer algorithm.

### Scene Description 
The program will be given a text file named “scene.txt”. This will contain the following lines:
Line 1: eyeX eyeY eyeZ
Line 2: lookX lookY lookZ
Line 3: upX upY upZ
Line 4: fovY aspectRatio near far
Lines 1-3 of scene.txt state the parameters of the gluLookAt function and Line 4 provides the
gluPerspective parameters.
The display code contains 7 commands as follows:
1. triangle command – this command is followed by three lines specifying the coordinates
of the three points of the triangle to be drawn. The points being p1, p2, and p3, 9 double
values, i.e., p1.x, p1.y, p1.z, p2.x, p2.y, p2.z, p3.x, p3.y, and p3.z indicate the
coordinates.
This is equivalent to the following in OpenGL code.
glBegin(GL_TRIANGLE);{
glVertex3f(p1.x, p1.y, p1.z);
glVertex3f(p2.x, p2.y, p2.z);
glVertex3f(p3.x, p3.y, p3.z);
}glEnd();2. translate command – this command is followed by 3 double values (tx, ty, and tz) in
the next line indicating translation amounts along X, Y, and Z axes. This is equivalent to
glTranslatef(tx, ty, tz) in OpenGL.
3. scale command – this command is followed by 3 double values (sx, sy, and sz) in the
next line indicating scaling factors along X, Y, and Z axes. This is equivalent to glScalef(sx,
sy, sz) in OpenGL.
4. rotate command – this command is followed by 4 double values in the next line indicating the
rotation angle in degree (angle) and the components of the vector defining the axis of rotation
(ax, ay, and az). This is equivalent to glRotatef(angle, ax, ay, az) in OpenGL.
5. push command – This is equivalent to glPushMatrix in OpenGL.
6. pop command – This is equivalent to glPopMatrix in OpenGL.
7. end command – This indicates the end of the display code.
In this assignment, you will generate the output of the first three stages of the raster based graphics
pipeline according to the scene description provided in the scene.txt file. The output of the stages
should be put in stage1.txt, stage2.txt, and stage3.txt file. The input of the fourth stage
will be stage3.txt and config.txt and the corresponding output should be put in zbuffer.txt and out.bmp (elaborated later).
Please check the scene.txt carefully to have a more comfortable understanding of the input

### Stage 1: Modeling Transformation

In the Modeling transformation phase, the display code in scene.txt is parsed, the transformed
positions of the points that follow each triangle command are determined, and the transformed
coordinates of the points are written in stage1.txt file. We maintain a stack S of transformation
matrices which is manipulated according to the commands given in the display code.
